
Inflation is shooting up, wages are stagnant, and employers are still strapped for funds from the fallout of the pandemic. Energy costs are through the roof and business hasn't come back to many sectors. There will be a winter of strikes ahead I feel.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
I live in Lenzie and work in Partick. With the trains off my commute has now went from 40 mins to 2 hours and my employer refuses to let me work from home even though I probably could.   
Mon the workers but fuck me this is gonna be a shite 2 weeks :(: RESULT = NEGATIVE
They've been given until 5pm on Wednesday otherwise the strikes are going ahead. I'm screwed getting to work but I hope they get the pay they deserve. Pay people what they're worth.: RESULT = POSITIVE
If Scotrail and the unions don't agree to resolve the strikes before Cop26, I Graeme Day is booted from his position. It's absolutely shocking that the Scottish Government are letting these strikes go ahead during one of the biggest events Scotland has ever had. They have had over seven months of Sunday strikes and yet we are on the verge of having nothing during Cop26.

As if those in the central belt don't have to deal with enough disruption as it is, but now the only easy way to get round Glasgow will be going as well. 

This has been a complete and utter shambles from the Scottish Government.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
visiting a pal up near Mallaig in just shy of a fortnight's time, this will be fun not .

up the workers: RESULT = POSITIVE
I was speaking to a member of staff at Central today as I’m going on holiday next week by train and he was saying that he’s 80% confident the strike won’t go ahead and that an agreement will be met. 

He also said that even if it does happen, it may not be every single service that is affected as not every member of staff is a union member but they would need to prioritise some routes as they’d obviously have a massively reduced workforce.: RESULT = POSITIVE
What I read a few days ago is that Unions where outright rejecting offers from the Scottish Government without consulting Union Members, if that's true that doesn't help end the negotiations, it should be the Union members who decide whether the offer is good or not.

Edit : here's a link to what I was referring to, https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-scotland-59021053

For the record I support better pay for Rail Workers as I use Rail Travel on a weekly basis, service needs to improve.: RESULT = POSITIVE
RIP cunts from commuter towns trying to get into work lmao we’re fucked 

Clarkston, East Kilbride, Hamilton, Larkhall, and Newton Mearns (etc) currently on suicide watch.  What’s that, wagie? Missed your bus? Sad!: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Gonna be a cunt for me but let's get this resolved n get the workers paid!: RESULT = POSITIVE
They are Lowkey playing with fire when your job is 100% replaceable with technology. 

I can see self driving trains and some kind of ticket automation check coming in the near future. 

Companies would rather buy machines and robots rather than pay people what they are due, ‘tis a sad reality.

Downvoted fur wit exactly? 😂: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Well, there goes my excuse for being late to work next week: RESULT = POSITIVE
Fuck sake man I was looking forward to 2 weeks of not having to drag my fat arse to uni: RESULT = NEGATIVE
2.5% pay rise? Bit of a shite deal is it no?: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Throw some money at them in the name of COP26! Hope the ordinary Workers are happy with it though: RESULT = POSITIVE
Och I was quite looking forward to the meltdown this strike would have caused: RESULT = NEGATIVE
If ScotRail tickets become 2.5% more expensive they better at least let us drink on the train again.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Thank. Fuck.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
So they've agreed to 2.5% for one year, but wouldn't agree to 5% two years last week with half of that backdated to last april?  Something doesn't smell right here.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Probably a pay cut given inflation atm: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Knew they’d bend over for the politicians arriving: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Good. By all accounts the staggered pay rise they were offering came with a lot of small print which was not good for the staff. 


Going to be very embarrassing for the Scottish government if this happens during COP26. By all accounts all trains between Glasgow and Edinburgh will be impacted which means a climate conference with everyone having to drive places. Government should have stepped in sooner to resolve this but they obviously didn't want to because they are taking over from abelio next year and we're hoping to not have to look like the bad guys.: RESULT = POSITIVE
RMT still out: RESULT = NEUTRAL
So are the trains runnin or nah?: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Good that a deal has struck but it just shows how again the people in charge don't give a fuck about the normal person until its going to effect them or make them look bad.

Strikes have been ongoing since April I think and only sorted out because of COP26.

Don't blame them for striking I wouldn't be working if I wasn't getting the same incentive as someone else.: RESULT = POSITIVE
That's why unions are so important. Turned out they didn't just not want to work or were being difficult and their demands could have been met all along. To quote Lisa Simpson, They have the plant but we have the power.: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Glad to see the workers get a result. Now we need to work on the passengers putting their fucking masks on.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Up the fucking workers! And I can finally get a Sunday train after the carnage of Halloween weekend, result. ✊: RESULT = NEUTRAL
&gt; Deal done to avoid a rail strike during Cop26. One year deal with 2.5% pay rise agreed between RMT, Scotrail and Scottish Govt.

https://twitter.com/STVColin/status/1453434557924093952?t=Ue1tyv0D3ZjTp_Atn9w0nQ&amp;s=19: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Well done to the RMT!   I hope to see this followed across the country as workers realise their power.  

&gt;They have taken untold millions that they never toiled to earn,  

&gt;But without our brain and muscle not a single wheel can turn,  

&gt;We can break their haughty power, gain our freedom when we learn,  

&gt;That the union makes us strong!: RESULT = POSITIVE
Folk who were already on £35-£40k per year to check tickets are now getting paid more out of your pocket since it will be the taxpayer that funds this.

This in an industry so bad that every single train journey in Scotland last year was subsidised by £60 of your money.

[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2021/09/23/sturgeon-fire-scotland-spends-three-times-rail-services-england/](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2021/09/23/sturgeon-fire-scotland-spends-three-times-rail-services-england/)

They took the opportunity to try and blackmail the government at the worst time possible and some people are actually pleased at how they treated the public. 

For every train guard or conductor who is on £35-£40k for a job that doesnt need to exist in the first place we could have had 2 junior nurses or 2 trainee firefighters. So if you are celebrating this, take some responsibility the next time someone dies because our emergency services arent quite up to scratch. You'll have helped kill them.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Imagine if NHS workers held everyone over a barrel during the height of the pandemic.: RESULT = NEUTRAL
I thought the issue was to do with overtime on weekends?: RESULT = NEUTRAL
The offer put forward by Abellio (2% or thereabouts for 2 years) came with a lot of conditions attached. The worst one being that they couldn’t guarantee no redundancies for gateline/booking office staff. So I think conductors etc are doing the right thing. They’re not just thinking of themselves. It’s also for other scotrail employees. 

When inflation is sitting at about 4% does that sound like a good offer?: RESULT = NEUTRAL
World class from RMT 👏👏👏

Fully taking advantage of a major global event that's coming to the city and knowing full well a large portion of people now work from home.

Well played - up the unions 🙌: RESULT = POSITIVE
Fully support them but damn is it grim to think im going to have to give Firstbus my custom to get to work during this time.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Loving the linked article about the binmen on strike. The leader's energy is infectious. Good on them.  https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/19647288.binmen-glasgow-vote-strike-cop26-amid-pay-rise-row/: RESULT = POSITIVE
Unions are having a field day with Cop26 lol: RESULT = POSITIVE
Good on them!: RESULT = POSITIVE
Up the workers and the unions!: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Solidarity: RESULT = POSITIVE
With the prices scotrail charge, how the fuck can they not pay their workers a decent wage.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Good- GMB member myself.   I am holding my breath for next month REAL living wage increase.  20pence an hour last year.: RESULT = POSITIVE
I’m expecting absolute chaos in Glasgow during COP. And I for one welcome it. The more distribution, strikes and anarchy the better IMO. Let the world see we are not putting up with this shit any longer.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Good on them.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Heartening to see solidarity in the comments. And also see a union box clever. Usually they just play the game. A day on strike that affects few, the boss agrees 0.5% more and the strike day pays for itself. Union says " we did our job" . Business says " we listened and acted". Worker, worse off.
So although I think there is little merit in defending a bigger rise for conductors on £32k, its nice to see a union be a union.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Making my job even harder. Great: RESULT = POSITIVE
Great so now other working class folk are gonna have to struggle to get to work now. Just pay these cunts off and bring in a lot more of they machines where customers paint out their own tickets. Think they have a shit job now, wait till they need to work in Farmfoods and have a Karen scream at them because they won't take an out of date voucher: RESULT = NEGATIVE
I’m going to get a job with Scotrail so I never have to work /hj: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Why do they need until March to take the contract over from Abellio?: RESULT = NEUTRAL
this plus the refuse strike is going to hit hard unless GCC + the Scottish Gov + UK Government actually do something. will absolutely cripple the conference considering the M8 is busy enough as it is without rail commuters as well as all the delegates who may get trains. refuse strikes will also hit massively considering what a huge issue it is in glasgow atm, fly tipping, litter and bins have been dreadful and will not give a good impression of the city, especially if it can't stay clean during COP.

tl;dr needs urgent attention or glasgow is fucked: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Seems like a great idea to knobble low carbon transport during a climate summit. And it won’t strengthen calls for more automation: RESULT = POSITIVE
Snapshot:

1. An archived version of _ScotRail and Caledonian Sleeper strike confirmed during COP26_ can be found [here.](https://archive.is/?run=1&amp;url=https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-scotland-scotland-politics-58917265)      


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/ukpolitics) if you have any questions or concerns.*: RESULT = POSITIVE
Good for them. Striking at a time is the most disruptive or most humiliating to the government is always the most effective way to do it.

Though personally I always liked the approach in France. Run a reduced service and refuse to take any money from the public, that way they're facing running costs and no income. 

Saved about 200 euros on my holidays.: RESULT = POSITIVE
On the one hand I’m all for it, but fucking hell it’s SO inconvenient. That’s the point obviously, but no me we’re in a situation where:

A service we rely on was seriously over priced and slightly unreliable at the best of times.

Now INCREDIBLY unreliable and the workers are unhappy and suffering.

Literally no-one is happy not even the workers of the company. 

When is it going to end? Why do other countries have their shit together and Scotland doesn’t? What is actually going on here?: RESULT = NEGATIVE
This whole situation is very frustrating. I don’t blame the staff but absolutely wow at scotrail for refusing to give in to the staffs demand. It’s literally caused so much inconvenience for me and I’ve had to cancel so much because of the Sunday strike.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
&gt;"Unite’s engineering members will now take part in a series of 24 hour stoppages "

So this is the maintenance staff and not the drivers and conductors who have been striking on Sundays as of late?  There's not really much detail in the article about what they want and their current conditions to judge this really.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Victory to the RMT!: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Always interesting to see the alleged "left wing, pro worker" posters suddenly change their tune when it reflects poorly on the Scottish government.: RESULT = POSITIVE
I usually cycle past the sec to get to work, was planning on getting the train during cop26. I guess ill take an enormous detour round glasgow instead then. So environmental.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Privatizing the railways was such a great idea!

- some tory cunt somewhere, probably: RESULT = POSITIVE
[deleted]: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Glad I have a car.: RESULT = POSITIVE
A walk is only 23 and a bit hours if you fancy the scenic route: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Megabus?

I'm coming up from England and staying with friends in Glasgow. We've booked a Megabus across.: RESULT = POSITIVE
If you can bus it from Ayr to Glasgow Buchanan Street Bus Station, you could catch the 747 to Edinburgh Airport and get off at Ingliston Park and Ride and then jump on the tram.: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Not sure of that exact route but coach is a good option as Murrayfield is on the right side of town for that. If you can get to Glasgow it should be easy enough: RESULT = POSITIVE
Ferry to Belfast, then flight into Edinburgh Airport. Tram from the airport stops at Murrayfield.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Scotrail really is a terrible service. I've never had a good thought about Scotrail in my entire life.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
I see it's that condescending wee wank Angus that's replying to him.  One of the worst social media individuals I've encountered: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Of all the people to be wee prick to that scotrail rep has picked an MSP: RESULT = NEGATIVE
It's almost like international fixtures are planned months in advance so scotrail could put on extra services, bastards: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Abellio have never been interested in anything more than making money. 

Hopefully the rail service improves significantly when it's back I'm public hands. They can start by handing wee Angus his jotters: RESULT = POSITIVE
So you're telling me that Scotrail handles football matches worse than the Japanese raiways handles a magnitude 6 earthquake? Not surprised tbf.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Leigh Griffiths shouting at the trains as they pass by. Must be trying to impress a bird.: RESULT = POSITIVE
I often forget there are people living in what is known as “Aberdeen” too, can’t blame them: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Yet his party refuses to nationalise it and flogged it to the Dutch government for pennies. Absolute gobshite.: RESULT = POSITIVE
The fuck sort of headline is that lol: RESULT = NEGATIVE
I'm mildly confused, isn't Abellio still in control?: RESULT = NEGATIVE
It really isn't 4.7%. It's 2.5% from this year being in dispute and 2.2% for next year. Trying to bundle them together and make it sound like 4.7%.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Anger? 

At whom though?: RESULT = NEGATIVE
That's click bait from the Torygraph: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Only if you believe inflation really is the rate claimed.: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Who is angry at a private company offering a pay rise? It's not like the Tories are complaining that their £80k+ salaries are too low is it?!: RESULT = NEGATIVE
It's a really contradictory story.  It seems to be trying to simultaneously say SNP BAAD!!! for actually giving the pay rise (as this contradicts the Westminster government saying, in January, rises of this kind simply cannot be funded for at least two years), but also SNP BAAD!!! for not doing it sooner.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Archive: https://archive.is/yJ0CM: RESULT = NEUTRAL
But If they put it before where the rails are, then it would likely blocks the doors of the train: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Please don't have children.: RESULT = POSITIVE
nice: RESULT = POSITIVE
No trick, sometimes train says no but doesn't tell you it said no.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
60% of the time, it works every time: RESULT = NEUTRAL
I don't know if it works the same way as on the bus but on the bus you tick the wee box and connect but then once you reach your data limit it will disconnect you and when you try to tick the wee box and try to reconnect it will just refresh back to the connect page until the next day (or whenever the data limit resets) 

You say it doesn't always work, does it always work first time? And when it fails if you try to reconnect instantly does it work or do you need to wait a while?: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Try using the actual browser (just bash in any URL and it should redirect you there) instead of whatever is used for those automatic 'sign in' popup screens.  I know it's probably all Chrome under the hood but I often have no luck when those screens appear automatically with public WiFi.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
You can also spoof your mac address, if you can be arsed running a command every 15 mins.: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Do you use a VPN? I have to disable mine to get access, then start it again when I'm connected.: RESULT = NEUTRAL
It shouldn't be up to regular staff to enforce the law. They don't get paid enough to deal with the aggression that would come with this.

I was asked to enforce mask wearing for a major supermarket at the start of the year by standing at the front door (I just work checkouts part time I don't have security training) and the amount of abuse I received for asking people if they want a mask was incredible. It was not worth what I get paid.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Just wear a fucking mask how difficult is that, people are such children: RESULT = NEGATIVE
They haven't ever enforced it.  That's why I haven't been on a train since early 2020.: RESULT = NEUTRAL
They have never enforced it and the story is BBC shit-stirring at its finest. The hard of thinking have now been given permission to not wear a mask by the BBC. Well done.: RESULT = POSITIVE
It's fairly easy. Just wear a mask and don't be a cunt.: RESULT = POSITIVE
If people are getting away with not wearing masks, surely people can get away with not buying tickets?: RESULT = NEGATIVE
If you want the staff to enforce masks. Give them tazers. Otherwise stay quiet.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Thank god. Masks should never have been mandated on trains in the first place. I don't personally mind wearing a mask in an indoors station and when walking in the train, however after sitting down, you should be able to take it off similar to logic in restaurants as the distances between people and ventilation are comparable.: RESULT = POSITIVE
I mean they could at least put announcements  that wearing masks is mandatory on the train.  That would be the bare minimum, but they dont even do that anymore.: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Who actually cares? The sub is just a page of constant moaning and utter pish majority of the time. If you have had your Jab and got your mask on what you so bothered for? Your life's must be miserable: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Got a train from Edinburgh to York, the announcement went like this:

"Face masks are still mandatory on Scottish public transport. Since we are in Scotland and a train is a form of public transport, that means it is mandatory to wear a face mask, unless medically exempt. While a face mask does look nice on your wrist or sitting on your table, it's not doing its job there."

The looks of smugness and amusement I could see through the compartment were amazing. I thrive for the passive aggressiveness sometimes. Donna, a living legend.: RESULT = POSITIVE
I'm medically exempt for a multitude of reasons and yet I always feel huge shame in not wearing it... so I'll end up walking round with both my "Special Needs Tag" on and my mask.... someone was a knob the other week and had the audacity to point out I'm wearing a medically exempt lanyard while wearing the mask and what was the point... I pointed out to her that I wear both so people know I'm not a knob when I take it off, that I've actually tried to wear it... unlike Karen here who just can't be bothered wearing it: RESULT = POSITIVE
Is ScotRail owned by a private company?

Why did it take them so long to offer a pay rise? 

Sorry just a little confused!: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Hopefully this is a step in the right direction. It is ridiculous to promote a green and sustainable future when the public transport operator was on strike on Sundays.: RESULT = POSITIVE
&gt;ScotRail offer staff payrise of 4.7% in bid to stop strikes before COP26

&gt;ScotRail have made a pay offer of 4.7% to staff in a bid to end a series of weekend strikes, with industrial action for the next two weekends put on hold while the offer is considered.

&gt;Workers at the rail firm have been holding a series of strikes over pay in recent weeks, with plans to continue each Sunday between now and November 28.

&gt;Now the Scotsman understands an offer has been made to staff of an initial 2.5% backdated to April this year, with an additional 2.2% promised in April 2022.

&gt;There is also a separate offer on the table of a £300 bonus payment to all staff for ensuring that COP26 is fully supported between October 31, and November 12.

&gt;With some world leaders staying in Edinburgh and travelling to Glasgow for the summit, there are expected to be delays along the M8.

&gt;It is understood that the offer represents improved terms made to staff, after weeks of disruption across Scotland’s rail network.

&gt;If strikes continue as scheduled, they will occur all day on consecutive Sundays; October 31, November 7, 14, 21, and 28.

&gt;Planned strikes for October 17 and 24 have been called off while the offer is considered.

&gt;Unite says members will be balloted on the latest offer between October 13 and 25.

&gt;A spokesperson for RMT said: “The offer has been received, and going through normal process of being discussed by our reps across Scotland.

&gt;Needs to be given full consideration and will be taking whatever time is necessary before taking the right decision. We’ll be issuing a further statement in due course.”

&gt;A ScotRail spokesperson said: “We’re seeing customers gradually return to Scotland’s Railway, but the scale of the financial situation ScotRail is facing is stark.

&gt;“We will continue to engage with the rail trade unions to find an agreement on pay and conditions.

&gt;“To build a more sustainable and greener railway for the future and reduce the burden on the taxpayer, we need to change. All of us in the railway – management, staff, trade unions, suppliers, and government – need to work together to modernise the railway so that it is fit for the future.”: RESULT = POSITIVE
It would be nice if the 2/3rds of people, at time of writing, who have downvoted this could share their reasons.  Not enough of a raise?  Hate public sector employees getting paid more?  Let us know!  

--

I'll wait to see the RMT's recommendation, but good news and hopefully underlines for some people the necessity of strike action.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Wait and see if they say they're happy to accept it. I'm guessing given half of the rise comes in next year this must have been greenlit by the Scottish government as that's when they are taking over. Makes you wonder why they didn't get involved sooner.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Hopefully the next thing they offer the LGBTQ+ community is a rail service that isn't overpriced and constantly late. At least now the trains are both cancelled and inclusive.: RESULT = POSITIVE
I've never thought to follow Scotrail on twitter but if it's this much fun I might start: RESULT = POSITIVE
Just as well it was Ste on the twitter page that day &amp; gave a civil shoot down.

Angus would have went 1990s undertaker on him with his reply.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
What are straight colours tho? I might have been doing this wrong ……: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Scotrail? Oh Aye!

https://youtu.be/Th7Mx2B4sXg: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Discriminated against 😂😂😂 what a soppin wet fish of a man: RESULT = POSITIVE
Shout-out to that commenter for finally coming out... As a massive fucking bellend.: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Exchanges like this make me think one day we’ll get really bored of the internet. Its always the exact same nonsense arguments and comebacks. I swear i’ve seen this word for word back and forth on Facebook, Youtube, Instagram for the last ten years. People who comment shite don’t deserve interaction.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Or, in other words, “go fuck yourself”: RESULT = NEGATIVE
From a design standpoint, I wish it was reversed, that way the arrows make it look more aerodynamic: RESULT = POSITIVE
Hop aboard the gay train: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Seems strange that only 2/3 of one carriage is painted. Did they run out of paint?: RESULT = NEGATIVE
I've heard this is an issue which affects a number of scenarios, after the release of the Rush Hour update. Hopefully it is fixed soon.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Looks like Abellio are in the "cut and run" phase of private industry running what's basically a monopoly. 

Should be nationally run with a goal of providing cheaper, greener transport rather than making a profit. Hope the redundancies don't happen before Abellio get the boot, those will be skilled people we need going forward.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Good on them: RESULT = POSITIVE
When are they wanting to strike exactly? Can’t be Sundays because that’s already taken.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Company makes £65m pre-tax loss

workers go on strike demanding pay rise

&amp;#x200B;

classic: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Anyone know what the terms offered were?: RESULT = NEUTRAL
The trains haven't ran on a Sunday for around 6 months, HALF A FUCKING YEAR. I hope the engineers are gonna strike on the Sunday also, as its already a fucking farce its been allowed to go this long, especially now the cou try is fully open and people are going to large events on Sundays, like football etc ..: RESULT = POSITIVE
Cheek pml  not as if they are over worked and underpaid  it's the complete opposite they are underworked and overpaid. And everyone is expected to be paid more when the company are going down the shitter they are all the same at Scotrail greed over anything else: RESULT = NEGATIVE
So the employees of the famously shit rail firm are going on strike because they don't think their pay reflects their performance.

If their pay reflected their performance, their pay would consist of being lined up and spat on by the scottish public.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Sure happy to.: RESULT = POSITIVE
From the tag that you’re using it looks like you’re wanting to paint it in a negative light rather then being open to both sides.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Go for it: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Go on then: RESULT = NEUTRAL
Sure: RESULT = POSITIVE
That's some spin - so he's said "RMT members will have voted unaware of a new offer... There was a mandate for industrial action on the premise no offer was forthcoming" 
The presenter then asks "So why do you think they're doing this" 
And he responds "No idea, you'd have to ask them"

Fuck sake, shite reporting, pure clickbait title -  he's saying he has no idea why they've carried on with industrial action despite the new offer being put on the table, not that he has no idea why they're striking.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
There's a lot of bad in a very short story. Firstly, the assumption that the union members voted by post and didn't know what they were voting for when the strike action has been going on for close to a year is insulting. That's a complete foot in mouth by him.


More worryingly it also appears that the SNP have "taken a side" in this dispute and it is not the side of the workers. For a party that wants to paint themselves as left wing that's not a good look. 


Being left wing is more than just social issues. They're the east bits that just require you to take the public with you. Being economically left is harder and this is a big fail.


Also, where the fuck are the Greens? They've been trying to court unions for a while and public transport would seem a good one for them to get with. If anyone can find something from any of them I'd be happy to see it but this far their silence on this and the proposed GMB strike from the council staff is deafening.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
If an SNP minister can’t figure out why strikes are going to happen then there is a far bigger problem than I ever imagined.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Its so funny when folk in this sub tell me that the SNP are left-wing, social democrats or even socialists. Aye they talk the big game - but when it comes down to actually supporting the unions or developing left-wing policy, suddenly they have no clue why the plebs are acting up and embarrassing Scotland.

Tartan Tories indeed.: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Well thank fuck for that, any word on if this also puts an end to the Sunday strikes?: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Thank fuck. Buses, binmen and lawyers to go: RESULT = NEGATIVE
Traveling by train is now a luxury, just like a century ago. The plebs are left to drive or cycle instead.: RESULT = POSITIVE
&gt; ScotRail plans to cut 300 services a day from its pre-pandemic levels to save taxpayers up to £40 million a year

It might save them $40m now, but what about the wider economic impact to businesses from loss of revenue? Then there's always the increase in cost to councils and government for roads because of increases in car traffic.: RESULT = POSITIVE
Consultation Link: https://www.scotrail.co.uk/about-scotrail/fit-future

Obviously much fewer people are commuting, and cuts in the peak hour services are justified because of that. However, Scotrail’s proposals involve cutting the off peak service by as much as 50% in addition to the peak services (compared to pre-Covid timetable). This disproportionately affects key workers (think healthcare, hospitality, manufacturing, trades etc.) that don’t work in an office and WFH isn’t and option and who also usually work irregular non 9-5 shifts, so they are more likely to commute in the off peak.

What ScotRail should’ve done is only cut peak extra services (that mainly serve those who can WFH) and not touch the off peak timetable. As such, there needs to be a pushback against this timetable change.

Read about the changes affecting your route and how your service will look like compared to the pre-pandemic timetable. Then voice your opposition in the online consultation form provided! 

In addition, write to your MSP and tell them that this is a bad deal for your area. It will discourage even more people from using trains as services will be less frequent, and people will have to wait  up to 50% longer for their train.: RESULT = NEGATIVE